.\"-
.\" Copyright 2003-2005 Colin Percival
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted providing that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/bsdiff/bspatch/bspatch.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 4c75e802364aa0b235fffcc31d13f7f06dff3a55c98f81568bcd49c5feb0eed5
.Dd 22 декабря 2022
.Dt BSPATCH 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm bspatch
.Nd применить патч, созданный с помощью
.Xr bsdiff 1
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Ar исходный_файл новый_файл файл_патча
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
создает
.Ar новый_файл
из
.Ar исходного_файла
и
.Ar файла_патча,
где
.Ar файл_патча
является двоичным патчем, созданным с помощью
.Xr bsdiff 1 .
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm
использует объем памяти, равный размеру
.Ar исходного_файла
плюс размер
.Ar нового_файла,
но может работать с очень небольшим рабочим набором без значительной потери
производительности.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr bsdiff 1
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Колин Персиваль Aq Mt cperciva@FreeBSD.org
.Sh ИЗВЕСТНЫЕ ОШИБКИ
Утилита
.Nm
не проверяет, что
.Ar исходный_файл
является правильным исходным файлом для
.Ar файла_патча.
Попытка применить патч к неправильному файлу обычно приводит к
получению мусора; следовательно, настоятельно рекомендуется, чтобы пользователи
.Nm
проверяли, что
.Ar исходный_файл
соответствует исходному файлу, из которого был создан
.Ar файл_патча,
например, сравнивая криптографические хэши.
Пользователи также могут захотеть проверить после запуска
.Nm,
что
.Ar новый_файл
соответствует целевому файлу, из которого был создан
.Ar файл_патча.
