.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Maksim Yevmenkin <m_evmenkin@yahoo.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id: btsockstat.1,v 1.6 2003/05/21 00:09:45 max Exp $
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/bluetooth/btsockstat/btsockstat.1
.\" FRDP githash b2c76c41be32f904179efed29c0ca04d53f3996c
.\" FRDP hash256 6ea1ef382e99aee7929f00a35e03ab0df41b703f8993f458fef2443f01a47966
.Dd 12 октября 2003
.Dt BTSOCKSTAT 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm btsockstat
.Nd отобразить информацию о сокетах Bluetooth
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl nrh
.Op Fl M Ar ядро
.Op Fl p Ar протокол
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
символически отображает содержимое различных структур данных,
связанных с сокетами Bluetooth.
Существует несколько форматов вывода в зависимости от
опций для представления информации.
Утилита
.Nm
выводит результаты в стандартный вывод, а сообщения об ошибках —
в стандартный поток ошибок.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl h
Показать сообщение об использовании и выйти.
.It Fl M Ar ядро
Извлечь значения, связанные со списком имён, из указанного ядра
вместо используемого по умолчанию
.Pa /dev/kmem .
.It Fl n
Показывать адреса Bluetooth в виде чисел.
Обычно
.Nm
пытается разрешить адреса Bluetooth и отобразить их символически.
.It Fl p Ar протокол
Отобразить список активных сокетов (блоков управления протоколом) для каждого
указанного протокола.
Поддерживаемые протоколы:
.Cm hci_raw , l2cap_raw , l2cap, rfcomm
и
.Cm rfcomm_s .
.It Fl r
Отобразить список активных записей маршрутизации (если есть) для указанного протокола.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ng_btsocket 4
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Максим Евменкин Aq Mt m_evmenkin@yahoo.com
.Sh ИЗВЕСТНЫЕ ОШИБКИ
Скорее всего.
Пожалуйста, сообщите, если обнаружены.
