.\" Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Joseph Koshy <jkoshy@users.sourceforge.net>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
.\"    in this position and unchanged.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id: c++filt.1 3642 2018-10-14 14:24:28Z jkoshy $
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./contrib/elftoolchain/cxxfilt/c++filt.1
.\" FRDP githash ae500c1ff8974130f7f2692772cf288b90349e0d
.\" FRDP hash256 2f0b88da984394d9758d945764f58a0b94fd82ffa1e5076e0d4e1dec98c20d5e
.Dd 24 августа 2011
.Dt C++FILT 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm c++filt
.Nd декодирование символов C++
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl -help
.Op Fl _ | Fl -strip-underscores
.Op Fl n | Fl -no-strip-underscores
.Op Fl p | Fl -no-params
.Op Fl s Ar схема | Fl -format Ns = Ns Ar схема
.Op Fl V | Fl -version
.Op Ar закодированные-имена ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
преобразует закодированные имена символов C++ в удобочитаемую форму.
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm
работает в двух режимах.
.Bl -bullet
.It
Если аргументы
.Ar закодированные-имена
не указаны, то
.Nm
будет действовать как фильтр, читая со стандартного ввода
и записывая на стандартный вывод.
.It
Если аргументы
.Ar закодированные-имена
указаны, то
.Nm
будет декодировать каждый такой аргумент по очереди, записывая его декодированную форму
на стандартный вывод.
.El
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm
распознает следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl -help
Вывести справочное сообщение и завершить работу.
.It Fl _ | Fl -strip-underscores
Удалить ведущее подчеркивание из имен символов перед их декодированием.
.It Fl n | Fl -no-strip-underscores
Не удалять ведущие подчеркивания из имен.
.It Fl p | Fl -no-params
Эта опция распознается, но игнорируется.
.It Fl s Ar схема | Fl -format Ns = Ns Ar схема
Выбрать используемую схему кодирования.
Аргумент
.Ar схема
может быть одним из следующих:
.It Ar arm
Использовать схему кодирования, указанную в Аннотированном справочном руководстве по C++.
.It Ar auto
Угадать схему кодирования на основе входных данных.
.It Ar gnu
Использовать схему кодирования, применяемую компилятором GNU C++.
.It Ar gnu-v3
Использовать схему кодирования, применяемую компилятором GNU C++, версия 3.
.El
.It Fl V | Fl -version
Вывести идентификатор версии для
.Nm
и завершить работу.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr nm 1 ,
.Xr strip 1 ,
.Xr elftc_demangle 3
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Утилита
.Nm
была написана
.An Каем Вангом Aq Mt kaiwang27@users.sourceforge.net .
