.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colrm.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/colrm/colrm.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 fac255846efb98d85f5c7f0ef0e3c35eddf4f4c2dce1cfea144b32d30fe7888d
.Dd 23 июня 2020
.Dt COLRM 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm colrm
.Nd удаление столбцов из файла
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Ar начало Op Ar конец
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
удаляет выбранные столбцы из строк файла.
Столбец определяется как отдельный символ в строке.
Ввод осуществляется из стандартного ввода.
Вывод записывается в стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Если указан только столбец
.Ar начало,
будут записаны столбцы с номерами меньше, чем
.Ar начало.
Если указаны оба столбца
.Ar начало
и
.Ar конец,
будут записаны столбцы с номерами меньше, чем
.Ar начало,
или больше, чем
.Ar конец.
Нумерация столбцов начинается с единицы, а не с нуля.
.Pp
Символы табуляции увеличивают счётчик столбцов до следующего кратного восьми.
Символы возврата на шаг уменьшают счётчик столбцов на единицу.
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменные окружения
.Ev LANG, LC_ALL
и
.Ev LC_CTYPE
влияют на выполнение
.Nm,
как описано в
.Xr environ 7.
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Показать столбцы ниже 3 (c) и выше 5 (e):
.Bd -literal -offset indent
abfgh
12678
.Ed
.Pp
Указание начального столбца большего, чем количество столбцов в файле,
допускается и показывает все столбцы:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
abcdefgh
.Ed
.Pp
Использование 1 в качестве начального столбца ничего не покажет:
.Bd -literal -offset indent

.Ed
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr awk 1,
.Xr column 1,
.Xr cut 1,
.Xr paste 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Bx 1.
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Джефф Шрибман
написал оригинальную версию
.Nm
в ноябре 1974 года.
