.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./crypto/heimdal/kuser/copy_cred_cache.1
.\" FRDP githash ae77177087c655fc883075af4f425b37e032cd05
.\" FRDP hash256 69b8aee2f88fffd636df8719a605718ad5653bb9c2dfc037a5bcc97b153dd030
.Dd 24 апреля 2004
.Dt COPY_CRED_CACHE 1
.Os HEIMDAL
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm copy_cred_cache
.Nd копирование учётных данных из одного кэша в другой
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl Fl krbtgt-only
.Op Fl Fl service= Ns Ar принципал
.Op Fl Fl enctype= Ns Ar тип_шифрования
.Op Fl Fl flags= Ns Ar флаги_билета
.Op Fl Fl valid-for= Ns Ar время
.Op Fl Fl fcache-version= Ns Ar целое_число
.Op Aq Ar исходный_кэш
.Aq Ar целевой_кэш
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm
копирует учётные данные из
.Aq Ar исходный_кэш
(или кэша по умолчанию) в
.Aq Ar целевой_кэш .
.Pp
Поддерживаемые опции:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl Fl krbtgt-only
Копирует только учётные данные krbtgt для области клиента. Это
эквивалентно
.Fl Fl service= Ns Li krbtgt/ Ns Ao Ar ОБЛАСТЬ_КЛИЕНТА Ac Ns Li @ Ns Ao Ar ОБЛАСТЬ_КЛИЕНТА Ac .
.It Fl Fl service= Ns Ar принципал
Копирует только учётные данные, соответствующие этому принципалу службы.
.It Fl Fl enctype= Ns Ar тип_шифрования
Копирует только учётные данные с соответствующим типом шифрования.
.It Fl Fl flags= Ns Ar флаги_билета
Копирует только учётные данные с установленными этими флагами билета.
.It Fl Fl valid-for= Ns Ar время
Копирует только учётные данные, действительные как минимум в течение указанного времени. Это
не учитывает возобновляемые учётные данные.
.It Fl Fl fcache-version= Ns Ar целое_число
Созданный кэш, если создаётся стандартный кэш
.Li FILE ,
будет иметь эту версию формата файла.
.El
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Чтобы скопировать только учётные данные, действительные как минимум один день и с
установленным флагом
.Li initial ,
попробуйте следующее:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ copy_cred_cache --valid-for=1d --flags=initial FILE:/some/cache
.Ed
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
Утилита
.Nm
завершается с кодом 0 при успехе и \*[Gt]0 при возникновении ошибки или если никакие
учётные данные не были фактически скопированы.
