.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 University of Maryland
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of U.M. not be used in advertising or
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  U.M. makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" U.M. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL U.M.
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR
.\" IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Author: James da Silva, Systems Design and Analysis Group
.\"			   Computer Science Department
.\"			   University of Maryland at College Park
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.sbin/crunch/crunchide/crunchide.1
.\" FRDP githash b2c76c41be32f904179efed29c0ca04d53f3996c
.\" FRDP hash256 a90d1b6586f45791295262c1ae6f9348e2448032bcc55bbb341c4e204bdf9a42
.Dd 14 июня 1994
.Dt CRUNCHIDE 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm crunchide
.Nd скрывает имена символов от ld для объединения программ
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar файл-список-сохранения
.Op Fl k Ar сохраняемый-символ
.Op Ar объектный-файл ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
скрывает глобальные символы
.Ar объектного-файла
так, что они игнорируются при последующих запусках компоновщика,
.Xr ld 1 .
Некоторые символы могут остаться видимыми с помощью опций
.Fl k Ar сохраняемый-символ
и
.Fl f Ar файл-список-сохранения .
Файл
.Ar файл-список-сохранения
должен содержать список символов, которые следует оставить видимыми, по одному символу на строку.
Имена, указанные в
.Ar сохраняемый-символ
или в
.Ar файл-список-сохранения ,
должны быть именами на языке C.
Например, чтобы оставить видимой функцию C
.Dq foo ,
следует использовать опцию
.Dq -k foo .
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm
разработана как вспомогательная программа для
.Xr crunchgen 1 ,
которая автоматизирует процесс создания объединённых двоичных файлов из
нескольких компонентных программ.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr crunchgen 1 ,
.Xr ld 1
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An -nosplit
Утилита
.Nm crunch
была написана
.An James da Silva Aq Mt jds@cs.umd.edu .
.Pp
Copyright (c) 1994 Университет Мэриленда.
Все права защищены.
.Pp
.An Chris Demetriou Aq Mt cgd@netbsd.org
реорганизовал
.Nm
для поддержки нескольких объектных форматов и добавил
поддержку объектов ELF и распознавание объектов ECOFF.
.Pp
Copyright (c) 1997
.An Christopher G. Demetriou .
Все права защищены.
