.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 The FreeBSD Foundation 
.\" All rights reserved. 
.\" 
.\" This software was developed by Rui Paulo under sponsorship from the
.\" FreeBSD Foundation. 
.\"  
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met: 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND 
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY 
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
.\" SUCH DAMAGE. 
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./cddl/usr.bin/ctfdump/ctfdump.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 dafc3852261e508b9edd96ff24f3b1f2ae156c6346e6a060985bd572e89154e4
.Dd 21 апреля 2022
.Dt CTFDUMP 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm ctfdump
.Nd выводит содержимое раздела SUNW_ctf файла ELF
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl dfhlsSt
.Fl u Ar файл
файл
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит содержимое раздела данных CTF (Compact C Type Format)
(SUNW_ctf), присутствующего в двоичном файле ELF.
Этот раздел был ранее создан с помощью
.Xr ctfconvert 1
или
.Xr ctfmerge 1 .
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d
Показать раздел объектов данных.
.It Fl f
Показать раздел функций.
.It Fl h
Показать заголовок.
.It Fl l
Показать раздел меток.
.It Fl s
Показать таблицу строк.
.It Fl S
Показать статистику.
.It Fl t
Показать раздел типов.
.It Fl u Ar файл_вывода
Записать несжатые данные CTF в сырой CTF-файл с именем
.Ar файл_вывода .
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ctfconvert 1 ,
.Xr ctfmerge 1 ,
.Xr ctf 5
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Fx 7.0 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Утилиты CTF пришли из OpenSolaris.
