.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 The FreeBSD Foundation 
.\" All rights reserved. 
.\" 
.\" This software was developed by Rui Paulo under sponsorship from the
.\" FreeBSD Foundation. 
.\"  
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met: 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND 
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY 
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
.\" SUCH DAMAGE. 
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./cddl/usr.bin/ctfmerge/ctfmerge.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 204a6b7c845c7a52cd09248f4698ff8bb807c61c62c1a06e139dcde447b80f51
.Dd 21 апреля 2022
.Dt CTFMERGE 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm ctfmerge
.Nd объединить несколько секций данных CTF в одну
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl fgstv
.Fl l Ar метка
.Fl L Ar переменная_метки
.Fl o Ar выходной_файл
файл ...
.Nm
.Op Fl fgstv
.Fl l Ar метка
.Fl L Ar переменная_метки
.Fl o Ar выходной_файл
.Fl d Ar уникальный_файл
.Op Fl g
.Op Fl D Ar уникальная_метка
файл ...
.Nm
.Op Fl fgstv
.Fl l Ar метка
.Fl L Ar переменная_метки
.Fl o Ar выходной_файл
.Fl w Ar файл_с_данными
файл ...
.Nm
.Op Fl g
.Fl c Ar исходный_файл
.Ar целевой_файл
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
объединяет несколько секций данных CTF (Compact C Type Format) из нескольких
файлов в один выходной файл, унифицируя общие данные.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl f
Сопоставить глобальные символы с глобальными данными CTF.
.It Fl g
Не удалять исходные отладочные секции.
.It Fl s
Использовать секцию ELF .dynsym вместо секции ELF .symtab.
.It Fl t
Убедиться, что все объектные файлы имеют секцию CTF.
.It Fl v
Включить подробный режим.
.It Fl l Ar метка
Устанавливает метку как
.Ar метка .
.It Fl L Ar переменная_метки
Указывает
.Nm
прочитать метку из переменной окружения
.Ar переменная_метки .
.It Fl o Ar выходной_файл
Использовать
.Ar выходной_файл
для хранения объединённых данных CTF.
.It Fl d Ar уникальный_файл
Уникализировать относительно
.Ar уникальный_файл .
.It Fl D Ar уникальная_метка
Уникализировать относительно метки
.Ar уникальная_метка .
.It Fl w Ar файл_с_данными
Аддитивное объединение с
.Ar файл_с_данными .
.It Fl c Ar исходный_файл Ar целевой_файл
Копировать данные CTF из
.Ar исходный_файл
в
.Ar целевой_файл .
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ctfconvert 1 ,
.Xr ctfdump 1 ,
.Xr ctf 5
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Fx 7.0 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Утилиты CTF пришли из OpenSolaris.
