.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) [year] [your name]
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Note: The date here should be updated whenever a non-trivial
.\" change is made to the manual page.
.\" FRDP path ./share/examples/mdoc/example.1
.\" FRDP githash 4d846d260e2b9a3d4d0a701462568268cbfe7a5b
.\" FRDP hash256 bfa485d3be49d71b6b6de254e81e95cbf1eb74ca4f74a6a2a0553ea8dd1d9809
.Dd 8 декабря 1999
.Dt EXAMPLE 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm example
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl abc
.Op Fl d Ar аргумент
.Ar файл
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Это пример страницы руководства для команды
.Nm .
Предполагается, что этот пример можно использовать как шаблон
при написании новой страницы руководства.
.Pp
Параметры следующие:
.It Fl a
Пример необязательного параметра
.Fl a .
.It Fl b
Пример необязательного параметра
.Fl b .
.It Fl c
Пример необязательного параметра
.Fl c .
.It Fl d Ar аргумент
Пример необязательного параметра
.Fl d
с обязательным аргументом
.Ar аргумент .
.It Ar файл
Обязательный аргумент
.Ar файл .
.El
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
игнорирует переменную окружения
.Ev EXAMPLE .
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.It Pa /dev/null
Пример файла в разделе
.Sx ФАЙЛЫ .
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Ниже приведен пример типичного использования
команды
.Nm :
.Pp
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
Команда может завершиться неудачей по одной из следующих причин:
.Bl -diag
Пример сообщения об ошибке.
Самоочевидно.
.El
.Sh СОВМЕСТИМОСТЬ
У команды
.Nm
нет известных проблем совместимости.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr example 3 ,
.Xr example 4 ,
.Xr mdoc 7 ,
.Xr example 9
.Rs
.%O RFC0000
.Re
.Rs
.%O ISBN-0-000-00000-0
.Re
.Rs
.Re
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Если команда соответствует какому-либо стандарту, например
.St -p1003.2
или
.St -isoC ,
это следует указать здесь.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Пример страницы руководства
.Nm
впервые появился в
.Fx 2.2 .
.Pp
Некоторые другие распространенные примеры раздела
.Sx ИСТОРИЯ :
.Pp
Пример страницы руководства
.Nm
впервые появился в
.Bx 4.4 .
.Pp
Пример страницы руководства
.Nm
впервые появился в
.At v6 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Эта
страница руководства была написана
.An Майком Притчардом Aq Mt mpp@FreeBSD.org .
.Sh ИЗВЕСТНЫЕ ОШИБКИ
Фактический код этой команды является vaporware.
