.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)expand.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/expand/expand.1
.\" FRDP githash f3eeeb959c9b00c89a2e1ff009c78162eb398656
.\" FRDP hash256 4eb9ddd6a6bb88b70879577cef92ce56b012ecd119710771dcede63e41ff93ed
.Dd 6 июня 2015
.Dt EXPAND 1
.Os
.ИМЯ
.Nm expand ,
.Nm unexpand
.Nd преобразование табуляций в пробелы и обратно
.СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Oo
.Fl t
.Sm off
.Ar tab1 , tab2 , ... , tabn
.Sm on
.Oc
.Op Ar
.Nm unexpand
.Oo
.Fl a | t
.Sm off
.Ar tab1 , tab2 , ... , tabn
.Sm on
.Oc
.Op Ar
.ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
обрабатывает указанные файлы или стандартный ввод, записывая
в стандартный вывод данные с заменой табуляций на пробелы.
Символы возврата на шаг сохраняются в выводе и уменьшают
счётчик столбцов для расчёта табуляций.
Утилита
.Nm
полезна для предварительной обработки символьных файлов
(перед сортировкой, просмотром определённых столбцов и т.д.),
содержащих табуляции.
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm unexpand
возвращает табуляции в данные из стандартного ввода или указанных
файлов и записывает результат в стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
.Nm (только unexpand.)
По умолчанию только ведущие пробелы и табуляции
преобразуются обратно в максимальные последовательности табуляций.
Если указана опция
.Fl a ,
то табуляции вставляются везде, где они могут сжать
результирующий файл, заменив два или более символов.
.It Fl t Xo
.Sm off
.Ar tab1 , tab2 , ... , tabn
.Sm on
.Xc
Установить позиции табуляции в столбцах
.Sm off
.Ar tab1 , tab2 , ... , tabn .
.Sm on
Если указано только одно число, позиции табуляции устанавливаются
через это количество столбцов вместо значения по умолчанию 8.
.El
.ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменные окружения
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL
и
.Ev LC_CTYPE
влияют на выполнение
.Nm
и
.Nm unexpand
как описано в
.Xr environ 7 .
.СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std expand unexpand
.СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилиты
.Nm
и
.Nm unexpand
соответствуют
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
.ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Bx 1 .
