.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Ed Schouten <ed@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./tools/tools/fixwhite/fixwhite.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 bbce68df307b6dd0ba23197397660380f18958fae65ae806cff11a7458fce0dd
.Dd 6 февраля 2012
.Dt FIXWHITE 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm fixwhite
.Nd удаление лишних пробелов из текстовых файлов
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
удаляет лишние пробелы из текста, переданного на стандартный ввод,
и выводит результат на стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Она удаляет начальные и конечные пустые строки из ввода, а также
конечные пробельные символы из каждой строки текста.
Несколько последовательных пустых строк объединяются в одну.
Если пробелы в начале предложения составляют в точности кратное восьми количество пробелов,
они заменяются табуляциями.
Также пробелы, предшествующие табуляциям, будут объединены в символ табуляции.
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Ed Schouten Aq Mt ed@FreeBSD.org
