.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)from.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/from/from.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 73e4aeeba0077a34ec4b989cf9866a9a92d09843a52bcb9349bbf12b6265877b
.Dd 30 декабря 1993
.Dt FROM 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm from
.Nd вывод имён отправителей почты
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl f Ar файл
.Op Fl s Ar отправитель
.Op Ar пользователь
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит строки заголовков почты из почтового ящика вызывающего пользователя.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c
Только вывести количество сообщений и завершить работу.
.It Fl f Ar файл
Вместо почтового ящика вызывающего пользователя проверяется указанный
.Ar файл.
Если используется опция
.Fl f,
аргумент
.Ar пользователь
не должен использоваться.
Читать из стандартного ввода, если указано имя файла
.Dq Fl .
.It Fl s Ar отправитель
Выводить только почту от адресов, содержащих указанную строку.
.El
.Pp
Если указан
.Ar пользователь,
вместо собственного почтового ящика вызывающего пользователя проверяется почтовый ящик указанного
.Ar пользователя.
(Требуются привилегии.)
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ev MAIL
Если установлена, определяет расположение почтового ящика вызывающего пользователя.
В противном случае используется значение по умолчанию в
.Pa /var/mail .
.El
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.It Pa /var/mail/*
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr biff 1 ,
.Xr mail 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 3.0 .
