.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)head.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/head/head.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 ba9373847fb61b12aaeec754934d01da92fd8c4c4abcc8a00e48c1e78aeaa1f1
.Dd 12 июня 2022
.Dt HEAD 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm head
.Nd вывод первых строк файла
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl qv
.Op Fl n Ar количество | Fl c Ar байты
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Этот фильтр выводит первые
.Ar количество
строк или
.Ar байты
каждого из указанных файлов или стандартного ввода, если файлы
не указаны.
Если
.Ar количество
опущено, по умолчанию используется значение 10.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar байты , Fl -bytes Ns = Ns Ar байты
Вывести
.Ar байты
каждого из указанных файлов.
.It Fl n Ar количество , Fl -lines Ns = Ns Ar количество
Вывести
.Ar количество
строк каждого из указанных файлов.
.Pp
Как
.Ar количество,
так и
.Ar байты
также могут быть указаны с суффиксами размера, поддерживаемыми
.Xr expand_number 3 .
.It Fl q , Fl -quiet , Fl -silent
Подавляет вывод заголовков при проверке нескольких файлов.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Добавляет заголовок перед каждым файлом.
.El
.Pp
Если указано более одного файла или используется опция
.Fl v ,
каждый файл предваряется
заголовком, состоящим из строки
.Dq ==> XXX <==
где
.Dq XXX
— это имя файла.
Флаг
.Fl q
отключает вывод заголовка во всех случаях.
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Чтобы вывести первые 500 строк файла
.Ar foo :
.Pp
.Dl $ head -n 500 foo
.Pp
.Nm
может использоваться совместно с
.Xr tail 1
следующим образом, чтобы, например, вывести только строку 500 из файла
.Ar foo :
.Pp
.Dl $ head -n 500 foo | tail -n 1
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr tail 1 ,
.Xr expand_number 3
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в PWB UNIX.
