.\" $NetBSD: iconv.1,v 1.3 2008/03/20 11:35:44 tnozaki Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c)2003 Citrus Project,
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/iconv/iconv.1
.\" FRDP githash b2c76c41be32f904179efed29c0ca04d53f3996c
.\" FRDP hash256 d449af41d18bb7d01afd0fae00e812de9d17ddc4980a53c40807a7e9e47172c0
.Dd 22 октября 2009
.Dt ICONV 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm iconv
.Nd утилита преобразования кодировок
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl cs
.Fl f
.Ar from_name
.Fl t
.Ar to_name
.Op Ar файл ...
.Nm
.Fl f
.Ar from_name
.Op Fl cs
.Op Fl t Ar to_name
.Op Ar файл ...
.Nm
.Fl t
.Ar to_name
.Op Fl cs
.Op Fl f Ar from_name
.Op Ar файл ...
.Nm
.Fl l
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
преобразует кодировку
.Ar файла
(или стандартного ввода, если файл не указан) из кодировки
.Ar from_name
в кодировку
.Ar to_name
и выводит преобразованный текст на стандартный вывод.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width 0123
.It Fl c
Запретить вывод любых недопустимых символов.
По умолчанию,
.Nm
выводит
.Dq недопустимый символ,
определённый кодировкой
.Ar to_name,
когда встречает символ, допустимый в кодировке
.Ar from_name,
но не имеющий соответствующего символа в кодировке
.Ar to_name.
.It Fl f
Задаёт исходную кодировку как
.Ar from_name.
.It Fl l
Выводит список доступных имён кодировок.
Обратите внимание, что не все комбинации
.Ar from_name
и
.Ar to_name
являются допустимыми.
.It Fl s
Тихий режим.
По умолчанию,
.Nm
выводит количество
.Dq недопустимых символов
в стандартный поток ошибок, если они существуют.
Эта опция предотвращает такое поведение.
.It Fl t
Задаёт целевую кодировку как
.Ar to_name.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std iconv
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Преобразовать
.Pa file.txt
из IBM273 в UTF-8 и сохранить результат в
.Pa converted.txt:
.Pp
.Dl iconv -f IBM273 -t UTF-8 file.txt > converted.txt
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr mkcsmapper 1 ,
.Xr mkesdb 1 ,
.Xr iconv 3
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
.Nm
соответствует
.St -p1003.1-2008.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Nx 2.0 и была включена в
.Fx 9.0.
