.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/ident/ident.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 f0aa9df4891b123e1a64c936e80233e9a9c533cd638e86dbbd0f5f00e310880d
.Dd 25 июля 2015
.Dt IDENT 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm ident
.Nd идентификация строк ключевых слов RCS в файлах
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl V
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
ищет все вхождения шаблона
.Sq $keyword: text$
в
.Ar файлах .
.Pp
Если аргументы не переданы, то
.Nm
обрабатывает стандартный ввод.
.Pp
.Em keyword
должен состоять только из буквенно-цифровых символов в локали C, за которыми следуют
.Sq \&:
и пробел.
.Pp
Поддерживаются следующие опции:
.It Fl q
Тихий режим: подавлять предупреждения, если шаблон не найден.
.It Fl V
Ничего не делать, добавлено для совместимости с GNU ident.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std ident
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Эта версия утилиты
.Nm
была написана
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq Mt bapt@FreeBSD.org .
