.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 1999, 2001, 2004, 2006 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./crypto/heimdal/kuser/kdestroy.1
.\" FRDP githash ae77177087c655fc883075af4f425b37e032cd05
.\" FRDP hash256 1471847cf9f833122bb9d506e0b417b455873acc60c60c350fd0b6c5ceaba808
.Dd 27 апреля 2006
.Dt KDESTROY 1
.Os HEIMDAL
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm kdestroy
.Nd удалить одно удостоверение или уничтожить текущий файл билетов
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Bk -words
.Op Fl c Ar файл_кэша
.Op Fl Fl credential= Ns Ar принципал
.Op Fl Fl cache= Ns Ar файл_кэша
.Op Fl A | Fl Fl all
.Op Fl Fl no-unlog
.Op Fl Fl no-delete-v4
.Op Fl Fl version
.Op Fl Fl help
.Ek
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm
удаляет одно удостоверение или текущий набор билетов.
.Pp
Поддерживаемые опции:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl credential= Ns Ar принципал
удалить
.Fa принципал
из кэша удостоверений, если он существует.
.It Fl c Ar файл_кэша
.It Fl cache= Ns Ar файл_кэша
Файл кэша для удаления.
.It Fl A
.It Fl Fl all
удалить все кэши удостоверений.
.It Fl Fl no-unlog
Не удалять токены AFS.
.It Fl Fl no-delete-v4
Не удалять билеты v4.
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr kinit 1 ,
.Xr klist 1
