.\" Copyright (c) 2000 - 2001 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./crypto/heimdal/appl/kf/kf.1
.\" FRDP githash ae77177087c655fc883075af4f425b37e032cd05
.\" FRDP hash256 b0ed7d23aa6e18c804d6a8295efe78c12e086e99b769ff0816954caf3831b780
.Dd 2 июля 2000
.Dt KF 1
.Os Heimdal
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm kf
.Nd безопасная пересылка билетов
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Oo
.Fl p Ar порт |
.Fl Fl port Ns = Ns Ar порт
.Oc
.Oo
.Fl l Ar логин |
.Fl Fl login Ns = Ns Ar логин
.Oc
.Oo
.Fl c Ar кэш |
.Fl Fl ccache Ns = Ns Ar кэш
.Oc
.Op Fl F | -forwardable
.Op Fl G | -no-forwardable
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl Fl version
.Ar хост ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Программа
.Nm
пересылает билеты на удалённый хост через аутентифицированный
и зашифрованный поток.
Поддерживаемые опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Xo
.Fl p Ar порт ,
.Fl Fl port Ns = Ns Ar порт
.Xc
порт для подключения
.It Xo
.Fl l Ar логин ,
.Fl Fl login Ns = Ns Ar логин
.Xc
удалённое имя пользователя
.It Xo
.Fl c Ar кэш ,
.Fl Fl ccache Ns = Ns Ar кэш
.Xc
удалённый кэш учётных данных
.It Fl F , -forwardable
пересылать пересылаемые учётные данные
.It Fl G , -no-forwardable
не пересылать пересылаемые учётные данные
.It Fl h , -help
.It Fl Fl version
.El
.Pp
.Nm
полезна, когда вы не хотите вводить пароль на удалённом хосте,
но хотите иметь свои билеты, например, для AFS.
.Pp
Для работы
.Nm
вам потребуется получить начальный билет с флагом пересылаемости,
т.е.
.Nm kinit Fl Fl forwardable .
.Pp
.Nm telnet
способен пересылать билеты самостоятельно.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr kinit 1 ,
.Xr telnet 1 ,
.Xr kfd 8
