.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2001 - 2002 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./crypto/heimdal/kuser/kgetcred.1
.\" FRDP githash ae77177087c655fc883075af4f425b37e032cd05
.\" FRDP hash256 6838629c73841f6df4da3fc3d54a42f6aa9c13cd386e9ac08ec09e0c7e1dfc5e
.Dd 12 марта 2004
.Dt KGETCRED 1
.Os HEIMDAL
.ИМЯ
.Nm kgetcred
.СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl Fl canonicalize
.Oo Fl c кэш \*(Ba Xo
.Fl Fl cache= Ns Ar кэш
.Xc
.Oc
.Oo Fl e Ar тип_шифрования \*(Ba Xo
.Fl Fl enctype= Ns Ar тип_шифрования
.Xc
.Oc
.Op Fl Fl no-transit-check
.Op Fl Fl version
.Op Fl Fl help
.Ar служба
.ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm
получает билет для службы.
Обычно билеты для служб получаются автоматически, когда это необходимо,
но иногда по какой-то особой причине требуется получить конкретный билет или билет специального типа.
.Pp
Поддерживаемые опции:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl Fl canonicalize
запрашивает канонизацию принципала KDC.
.It Fl c Ar кэш , Fl Fl cache= Ns Ar кэш
используемый кэш учётных данных.
.It Fl e Ar тип_шифрования , Fl Fl enctype= Ns Ar тип_шифрования
используемый тип шифрования.
.It Fl Fl no-transit-check
запрашивает, чтобы KDC не выполнял проверку транзита.
.It Fl Fl version
.It Fl Fl help
.El
.СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr kinit 1 ,
.Xr klist 1
