.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 2000 - 2005 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./crypto/heimdal/kpasswd/kpasswd.1
.\" FRDP githash ae77177087c655fc883075af4f425b37e032cd05
.\" FRDP hash256 6430a7e8346df1d1968f5bcc5b6d31ad724f1afeb7338fdf3c7112004a8cdade
.Dd 5 января 2005
.Dt KPASSWD 1
.Os HEIMDAL
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm kpasswd
.Nd Программа смены пароля Kerberos 5
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl Fl admin-principal= Ns Ar principal
.Oo Fl c Ar cache \*(Ba Xo
.Fl Fl cache= Ns Ar cache
.Xc
.Oc
.Op Ar principal ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm
является клиентом для смены паролей.
.Pp
Если указан административный принципал, он используется для смены
пароля.
.Pp
Несколько паролей для разных пользователей могут быть изменены одновременно,
в этом случае будет использован административный принципал.
Если администратор не указан в командной строке, будет использован
принципал из кэша учётных данных по умолчанию.
.Pp
Если задан кэш учётных данных, флаг
.Fl Fl admin-principal
игнорируется, и вместо него используется имя кэша учётных данных по умолчанию.
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
Если проверка качества пароля не пройдена или возникает другая ошибка,
выводится объяснение.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr kpasswdd 8
