.\" Copyright (c) 2000 - 2001 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./crypto/heimdal/tools/krb5-config.1
.\" FRDP githash ae77177087c655fc883075af4f425b37e032cd05
.\" FRDP hash256 5bea92049b25fb93a8590e44369227db5ff266380b1909ad62c0a411f491efe1
.Dd 30 ноября 2000
.Dt KRB5-CONFIG 1
.Os HEIMDAL
.ИМЯ
.Nm krb5-config
.СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl Fl prefix Ns Op = Ns Ar каталог
.Op Fl Fl exec-prefix Ns Op = Ns Ar каталог
.Op Fl Fl libs
.Op Fl Fl cflags
.Op Ar библиотеки
.ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm
сообщает программисту, какие специальные флаги использовать для компиляции
и линковки программ с библиотеками, установленными Heimdal.
.Pp
Поддерживаемые опции:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl Fl prefix Ns Op = Ns Ar каталог
Выводит префикс, если
.Ar каталог
не указан, в противном случае устанавливает префикс в
.Ar каталог .
.It Fl Fl exec-prefix Ns Op = Ns Ar каталог
Выводит exec-префикс, если
.Ar каталог
не указан, в противном случае устанавливает exec-префикс в
.Ar каталог .
.It Fl Fl libs
Выводит набор библиотек, с которыми следует линковаться.
.It Fl Fl cflags
Выводит набор флагов для передачи компилятору C при использовании
библиотек Heimdal.
.El
.Pp
По умолчанию
.Nm
выводит набор флагов и библиотек, которые должен использовать обычная
программа, применяющая API krb5. Пользователь также может указать библиотеку
для использования, поддерживаемые из них:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It krb5
(по умолчанию)
.It gssapi
использовать механизм gssapi krb5
.It kadm-client
использовать клиентские библиотеки kadmin
.It kadm-server
использовать серверные библиотеки kadmin
.El
.СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr cc 1
.ИСТОРИЯ
.Nm
появился в Heimdal 0.3d.
