.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./crypto/heimdal/kuser/kswitch.1
.\" FRDP githash ae77177087c655fc883075af4f425b37e032cd05
.\" FRDP hash256 6f78afac5c7bdf35732ad5b7d3bc28dd8b62bb4554f88e415c22964e57dbb07d
.Dd 25 августа 2009
.Dt KSWITCH SECTION
.Os OPERATING_SYSTEM
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm kswitch
.Nd переключение между кэшами учётных данных по умолчанию
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Oo Fl t Ar тип \*(Ba Xo
.Fl Fl type= Ns Ar тип
.Xc
.Oc
.Oo Fl c Ar кэш \*(Ba Xo
.Fl Fl cache= Ns Ar кэш
.Xc
.Oc
.Oo Fl p Ar принципал \*(Ba Xo
.Fl Fl principal= Ns Ar принципал
.Xc
.Oc
.Op Fl i | Fl Fl interactive
.Op Fl Fl version
.Op Fl Fl help
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Поддерживаемые опции:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Fl t Ar тип ,
.Fl Fl type= Ns Ar тип
.Xc
тип кэша учётных данных
.It Xo
.Fl c Ar кэш ,
.Fl Fl cache= Ns Ar кэш
.Xc
имя кэша учётных данных для переключения
.It Xo
.Fl p Ar принципал ,
.Fl Fl principal= Ns Ar принципал
.Xc
имя принципала для переключения
.It Xo
.Fl i ,
.Fl Fl interactive
.Xc
интерактивное переключение между учётными данными.
.It Xo
.Fl Fl version
.Xc
вывести версию
.It Xo
.Fl Fl help
.Xc
.El
