.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)leave.1	8.3 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/leave/leave.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 d42d348a225c39f7a922c9ab589ffecdaf8a36120d8cb85344616bbbfdc2877d
.Dd 28 апреля 1995
.Dt LEAVE 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm leave
.Nd напоминает, когда вам нужно уйти
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Oo Cm \&+ Oc Ns Ar ччмм
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
ожидает до указанного времени, а затем напоминает вам, что вам
нужно уйти.
Напоминание происходит за 5 минут и за 1 минуту до фактического
времени, в само время и каждую минуту после этого.
Когда вы выходите из системы,
.Nm
завершает работу непосредственно перед тем, как должна была бы
быть выведено следующее сообщение.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ar ччмм
Время суток задаётся в формате
.Ar ччмм
где
.Ar чч
— это часы
(по 12- или 24-часовому формату), а
.Ar мм
— минуты.
Все времена преобразуются в 12-часовой формат и предполагаются
в ближайшие 12 часов.
.It Cm \&+
Если перед временем указан
.Sq Cm \&+ ,
сигнал сработает через указанное количество часов и минут
от текущего времени.
.El
.Pp
Если аргумент не указан,
.Nm
запрашивает время.
Ответ в виде символа новой строки приводит к завершению
.Nm ,
в противном случае ответ считается временем.
Эта форма подходит для включения в
.Pa .login
или
.Pa .profile .
.Pp
Чтобы избавиться от
.Nm ,
следует либо выйти из системы, либо использовать
.Ql kill \-s KILL
указав его идентификатор процесса.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr calendar 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 3.0 .
