.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)lorder.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/lorder/lorder.1
.\" FRDP githash cf4d9bf8b38819da12c6d686d5cf6dbd6353cd61
.\" FRDP hash256 6380082b944dffbe2999e3ca0870b07b978bb4ee07cbf6c14954527f588b3432
.Dd 27 февраля 2024
.Dt LORDER 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm lorder
.Nd список зависимостей для объектных файлов
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
использует
.Xr nm 1
для определения взаимозависимостей между объектными файлами и архивами библиотек,
перечисленными в её командной строке.
Затем она выводит список пар имён файлов, таких что первый файл в каждой паре
ссылается хотя бы на один символ, определённый во втором.
.Pp
Вывод обычно используется с
.Xr tsort 1
при создании библиотеки для определения оптимального порядка размещения
объектных модулей, чтобы все ссылки могли быть разрешены за один проход
загрузчика.
.Pp
Аналогично, при статической компоновке бинарных файлов,
.Nm
и
.Xr tsort 1
могут использоваться для сортировки библиотек в порядке зависимости.
.Pp
Хотя современные компоновщики больше не требуют использования
.Nm ,
она предоставляется для удобства устаревших кодовых баз и систем сборки,
которые всё ещё настаивают на её применении.
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Ev NM
Путь к исполняемому файлу
.Xr nm 1 ,
по умолчанию
.Dq Li nm .
.It Ev NMFLAGS
Флаги, передаваемые в
.Xr nm 1 .
.El
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ar cr library.a `lorder ${OBJS} | tsort`
cc -o foo ${OBJS} `lorder ${STATIC_LIBS} | tsort`
.Ed
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ar 1 ,
.Xr ld 1 ,
.Xr nm 1 ,
.Xr ranlib 1 ,
.Xr tsort 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.At v7 .
.Sh ПРЕДОСТЕРЕЖЕНИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
будет работать некорректно, если ей передать имена файлов, содержащие пробелы
или символы новой строки.
