.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)lptest.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/30/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.sbin/lpr/lptest/lptest.1
.\" FRDP githash 8a7b61203704d362cfbc66c00619f51b24106b55
.\" FRDP hash256 62f4e1f46e53787212723e7c6ad14eecddaf3ca392941234887f903248e430b6
.Dd 30 декабря 1993
.Dt LPTEST 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm lptest
.Nd генерация волнообразного шаблона для построчного принтера
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Ar длина
.Op Ar количество
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит стандартный тестовый шаблон, исторически использовавшийся для проверки принтеров.
За 96 строк этот шаблон выводит все 96 печатаемых символов
.Tn ASCII
в каждой позиции.
Хотя изначально создавалась для тестирования принтеров, она вполне
полезна для проверки терминалов,
управления портами терминалов в целях отладки,
или любых других задач, где требуется быстрая подача случайных данных.
.Pp
Аргумент
.Ar длина
задаёт длину выходной строки, если стандартная
длина 79 символов не подходит.
.Pp
Аргумент
.Ar количество
задаёт число генерируемых выходных строк, если
стандартное количество 200 не подходит.
Заметьте, что если указан аргумент
.Ar количество,
то также должен быть указан и аргумент
.Ar длина.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.3 .
