.\" Copyright (c) 2008 George V. Neville-Neil
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./tools/tools/mcgrab/mcgrab.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 638f31a9957107b0be600886f437c8aba0f048711d6e31b2e6a2fa9c0971c458
.Dd 9 июля 2008
.Dt MCGRAB 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm mcgrab
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl i Ar интерфейс
.Op Fl g Ar группа
.Op Fl n Ar количество
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
реализует тест многоадресной рассылки, который захватывает и удерживает
N многоадресных адресов.
Цель теста — посмотреть, что
происходит, когда сетевой интерфейс больше не может фильтровать
многоадресный трафик на аппаратном уровне и должен переключиться в режим
неразборчивого приёма или многоадресного неразборчивого приёма.
Успешный тест не имеет какого-либо
результата, но неудачный тест будет иметь пагубные побочные эффекты.
Размер пакета в байтах.
Параметры следующие:
.It Fl i Ar интерфейс
Сетевой интерфейс, который можно найти с помощью
.Xr ifconfig 8 .
.It Fl g Ar группа
Группа многоадресной рассылки.
.It Fl n Ar количество
Количество групп для присоединения.
.El
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Ниже приведён пример типичного использования
команды
.Nm :
.Pp
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr mctest 1 ,
.Xr netstat 1 ,
.Xr nanosleep 2 ,
.Xr ifconfig 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Программа
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Fx 7.0 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Эта
страница руководства была написана
.An Джорджем В. Невиллом-Нилом Aq Mt gnn@FreeBSD.org .
.Sh ИЗВЕСТНЫЕ ОШИБКИ
Ошибки следует сообщать автору или по адресу
.Aq Mt net@FreeBSD.org .
