.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Joseph Koshy.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOSEPH KOSHY ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JOSEPH KOSHY BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id: mcs.1 3642 2018-10-14 14:24:28Z jkoshy $
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./contrib/elftoolchain/elfcopy/mcs.1
.\" FRDP githash ae500c1ff8974130f7f2692772cf288b90349e0d
.\" FRDP hash256 1346368e3db17ed90b7eabbe92fafb9e393662e4b651e9f64a26b23a8e2750be
.Dd 29 ноября 2011
.Dt MCS 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm mcs
.Nd управление разделом комментариев в объекте ELF
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl a Ar строка
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl n Ar имя
.Op Fl p
.Ar
.Nm
.Fl d
.Op Fl n Ar имя
.Ar
.Nm
.Fl h | Fl -help
.Nm
.Fl V | Fl -version
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
используется для управления разделами комментариев в объекте ELF.
Если аргумент командной строки
.Ar файл
указывает на архив
.Xr ar 1 ,
то
.Nm
будет работать с объектами ELF, содержащимися в архиве.
.Pp
По умолчанию
.Nm
работает с разделом ELF с именем
.Dq .comment .
Это можно изменить с помощью опции
.Fl n .
.Pp
Утилита
.Nm
поддерживает следующие опции:
.It Fl a Ar строка
Добавить текст из
.Ar строки
в раздел комментариев.
Эту опцию можно указывать несколько раз.
.It Fl c
Сжать раздел комментариев, удалив повторяющиеся записи.
.It Fl d
Удалить раздел комментариев из объекта ELF.
.It Fl h | Fl -help
Показать сообщение об использовании и выйти.
.It Fl n Ar имя
Работать с разделом с именем
.Ar имя .
.It Fl p
Вывести содержимое раздела комментариев.
Это действие выполняется после завершения действий, указанных опциями
.Fl a
и
.Fl c
(если они есть).
.It Fl V | Fl -version
Вывести идентификатор версии и выйти.
.El
.Sh СОВМЕСТИМОСТЬ
Поведение утилиты
.Nm
отличается от её аналога в SVR4 следующим образом:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Если указана опция
.Fl d ,
она приводит к игнорированию любых присутствующих опций
.Fl a ,
.Fl c
и
.Fl p .
.It
Порядок опций
.Fl a ,
.Fl c ,
.Fl d
и
.Fl p
в командной строке не имеет значения.
.El
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
.Ex -std
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ar 1 ,
.Xr elfcopy 1 ,
.Xr ld 1 ,
.Xr nm 1 ,
.Xr strip 1
