.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)mkfifo.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 1/5/94
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/mkfifo/mkfifo.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 81ad2f1685b5fe3d60421bf806abe8146ea0b43323612fbc57290b6ae69e9fbb
.Dd 5 января 1994
.Dt MKFIFO 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm mkfifo
.Nd создание fifo-файлов
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl m Ar режим
.Ar имя_fifo ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
создает запрошенные fifo-файлы в указанном порядке.
.Pp
Параметры следующие:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl m
Устанавливает биты прав доступа создаваемых fifo-файлов в указанный
режим, игнорируя
.Xr umask 2
вызывающего процесса.
Аргумент
.Ar режим
может быть в любом формате, допустимом для команды
.Xr chmod 1 .
Если указан символьный режим, символы операций
.Ql +
(плюс) и
.Ql -
(минус) интерпретируются относительно предполагаемого начального режима
.Dq Li a=rw
(права чтения и записи для всех).
.El
.Pp
Если параметр
.Fl m
не указан, fifo-файлы создаются с режимом
.Li 0666,
измененным
.Xr umask 2
вызывающего процесса.
Утилите
.Nm
требуется право записи в родительском каталоге.
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr mkdir 1 ,
.Xr rm 1 ,
.Xr mkfifo 2 ,
.Xr mknod 2 ,
.Xr mknod 8
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Ожидается, что утилита
.Nm
соответствует
.St -p1003.2 .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.4 .
