.\" Copyright (c) 1996
.\"	Steve Passe <fsmp@FreeBSD.org>.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. The name of the developer may NOT be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.sbin/mptable/mptable.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 0cb0efc2436b699ec0cb3d2ee0e1e6a61cc40fc3865542724de4bafd7f6c647d
.Dd 28 апреля 1997
.Dt MPTABLE 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm mptable
.Nd отобразить таблицу конфигурации MP
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl dmesg
.Op Fl verbose
.Op Fl grope
.Op Fl help
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
находит и анализирует таблицу конфигурации MP на
материнской плате, соответствующей спецификации Intel(tm) MP.
Она полезна для отладки SMP-ядра, которое не загружается, а также
для изучения конфигурации системы.
Может выполняться с UniProcessor-ядром.
.Pp
Должна запускаться с привилегиями группы kmem.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl dmesg
Включить дамп dmesg.
.It Fl grope
Искать в областях, где это не должно быть НУЖНО, использовать ТОЛЬКО в крайнем случае.
.It Fl help
Вывести сообщение об использовании и завершить работу.
.It Fl verbose
Выводить дополнительную информацию.
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr smp 4 ,
.Xr dmesg 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Fx 3.0 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Steve Passe Aq Mt fsmp@FreeBSD.org
