.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)nice.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/nice/nice.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 555ca99fbb0d47b0aa6eb947446716ece6de4dda1848c5bdf764401da9f12dc2
.Dd 24 февраля 2011
.Dt NICE 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm nice
.Nd запуск утилиты с изменённым приоритетом планирования
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar приращение
.Ar утилита
.Op Ar аргумент ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
запускает
.Ar утилиту
с изменённым приоритетом планирования, увеличивая её
.Dq nice
значение на указанное
.Ar приращение ,
или на значение по умолчанию, равное 10.
Чем ниже значение nice процесса, тем выше его приоритет планирования.
.Pp
Суперпользователь может указать отрицательное приращение, чтобы запустить утилиту
с более высоким приоритетом планирования.
.Pp
Некоторые оболочки могут предоставлять встроенную команду
.Nm ,
которая похожа или идентична данной утилите.
Обратитесь к странице руководства
.Xr builtin 1 .
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменная окружения
.Ev PATH
используется для поиска запрашиваемой
.Ar утилиты ,
если имя не содержит символов
.Ql / .
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
Если
.Ar утилита
вызвана, статус выхода
.Nm
равен статусу выхода
.Ar утилиты .
.Pp
Статус выхода 126 указывает, что
.Ar утилита
была найдена, но не может быть выполнена.
Статус выхода 127 указывает, что
.Ar утилита
не может быть найдена.
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Запустить утилиту
.Sq date
с приоритетом 5, предполагая, что приоритет
оболочки равен 0:
.Pp
.Pp
Запустить утилиту
.Sq date
с приоритетом -19, предполагая, что приоритет
оболочки равен 0 и вы являетесь суперпользователем:
.Pp
.Sh СОВМЕСТИМОСТЬ
Традиционный параметр
.Fl Ns Ar приращение
устарел, но всё ещё поддерживается.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr idprio 1 ,
.Xr rtprio 1 ,
.Xr getpriority 2 ,
.Xr setpriority 2 ,
.Xr renice 8
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
соответствует
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.At v4 .
