.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan
.\" (Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" 3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./crypto/heimdal/appl/afsutil/pagsh.1
.\" FRDP githash ae77177087c655fc883075af4f425b37e032cd05
.\" FRDP hash256 d825c530af6a167179df6380246e2a3747e037d890d054121ba2110706500f81
.Dd 12 февраля 2005
.Dt PAGSH 1
.Os Heimdal
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm pagsh
.Nd создает новую песочницу для кэша учетных данных
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar строка-команды
.Op Fl h | Fl Fl help
.Op Fl Fl version
.Op Fl Fl cache-type= Ns Ar строка
.Ar команда [аргументы...]
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Поддерживаемые опции:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Fl c Ar строка-команды
Выполняет команду(ы), содержащиеся в
.Ar строке-команды .
.Xc
.It Xo
.Fl Fl cache-type= Ns Ar строка
.Xc
.It Xo
.Fl h ,
.Fl Fl help
.Xc
.It Xo
.Fl Fl version
.Xc
.El
.Pp
.Nm
создает новую песочницу для кэша учетных данных, в которой будет работать пользователь.
Если на компьютере установлена AFS, пользователь помещается в новую
созданную группу аутентификации процессов (Process Authentication Group, PAG).
.Pp
Для Kerberos 5 тип кэша учетных данных, который используется, совпадает с
типом кэша учетных данных, использовавшимся на момент
вызова
.Nm .
Тип кэша учетных данных может контролироваться опцией
.Fl Fl cache-type .
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Создать новую песочницу, в которой можно использовать новые учетные данные, в то время как старые
учетные данные могут использоваться другими процессами.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ klist
Кэш учетных данных: FILE:/tmp/krb5cc_913
        Принципал: lha@E.KTH.SE

  Выдан           Истекает          Принципал
12 фев 10:08:31  12 фев 20:06:36  krbtgt/E.KTH.SE@E.KTH.SE
$ pagsh
$ klist
klist: Нет файла билета: /tmp/krb5cc_03014a
.Ed
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr afslog 1 ,
.Xr kinit 1
