.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 The FreeBSD Foundation 
.\" All rights reserved. 
.\" 
.\" This software was developed by Rui Paulo under sponsorship from the
.\" FreeBSD Foundation. 
.\"  
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met: 
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND 
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS 
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY 
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
.\" SUCH DAMAGE. 
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./cddl/usr.sbin/plockstat/plockstat.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 340e17d78b0b6b3c5fd70ff061d5f90c680c72f2804840923961937bd9d160a2
.Dd 13 сентября 2010 г.
.Dt PLOCKSTAT 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm plockstat
.Nd Трассировка статистики блокировок pthread с использованием DTrace
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl vACHV
.Op Fl n Ar количество
.Op Fl s Ar глубина
.Op Fl e Ar секунды
.Op Fl x Ar опция Ns = Ns Ar значение
.Ar команда
.Op аргумент...
.Nm
.Op Fl vACHV
.Op Fl n Ar количество
.Op Fl s Ar глубина
.Op Fl e Ar секунды
.Op Fl x Ar опция Ns = Ns Ar значение
.Fl p Ar pid
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
трассирует блокировки pthread (мьютексы и rwlock) и выводит статистику по ним.
Вы можете использовать
.Nm
для исследования узких мест в вашем программном обеспечении.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl v
Подробный вывод.
.It Fl A
Выводить всю статистику.
.It Fl C
Выводить накопительную статистику (по умолчанию).
.It Fl H
Выводить гистограмму.
.It Fl V
Выводить сценарий DTrace, который будет использован, в stderr.
.It Fl n Ar количество
Установить количество агрегаций для набора данных.
.It Fl s Ar глубина
Установить глубину стека вызовов (пользовательского стека).
.It Fl e Ar секунды
В настоящее время ничего не делает.
.It Fl x Ar опция Ns = Ns Ar значение
Указать опции DTrace.
Подробнее см. на странице руководства
.Xr dtrace 1 .
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr dtrace 1 ,
.Xr pthread 3
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
происходит из OpenSolaris и была впервые импортирована в
.Fx 9.0 .
