.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)printenv.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/printenv/printenv.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 5cf23a5dd2c0efcb4aab94e0602eba945f5aa8a020046cd3baa72764bc5bd60f
.Dd 12 мая 2003
.Dt PRINTENV 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm printenv
.Nd вывод окружения
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Ar имя
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит имена и значения переменных окружения,
по одной паре имя/значение на строку.
Если указано
.Ar имя,
выводится только его значение.
.Pp
Некоторые оболочки могут предоставлять встроенную команду
.Nm,
которая похожа или идентична данной утилите.
Обратитесь к справочной странице
.Xr builtin 1.
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr csh 1,
.Xr env 1,
.Xr sh 1,
.Xr environ 7
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
предоставляется для совместимости с ранними версиями
.Bx
и
.Fx
и не определена какими-либо стандартами.
Функциональность
.Nm
может быть воспроизведена с помощью утилит
.Xr echo 1
и
.Xr env 1.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 3.0.
