.\" Copyright (c) 2007,2009-2012 Joseph Koshy.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" This software is provided by Joseph Koshy ``as is'' and
.\" any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the
.\" implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose
.\" are disclaimed.  in no event shall Joseph Koshy be liable
.\" for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential
.\" damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods
.\" or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption)
.\" however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict
.\" liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way
.\" out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of
.\" such damage.
.\"
.\" $Id: ranlib.1 3642 2018-10-14 14:24:28Z jkoshy $
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./contrib/elftoolchain/ar/ranlib.1
.\" FRDP githash ae500c1ff8974130f7f2692772cf288b90349e0d
.\" FRDP hash256 0e48e69a032fb6ae208db767cd7a9c026032b18edc653e9b8eea510b260fd914
.Dd 9 декабря 2012
.Dt RANLIB 1
.Os
.Ш ИМЯ
.Nm ranlib
.Nd обновить таблицы символов архивов
.Ш СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl D
.Op Fl t
.Ar архив Ns ...
.Nm
.Fl V
.Ш ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm ranlib
используется для обновления существующей таблицы символов архива в
.Xr ar 1
архиве или для добавления таблицы символов архива к архиву, в котором её нет.
.Ш ПАРАМЕТРЫ
Утилита
.Nm
поддерживает следующие параметры:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl D
Использовать нули для полей mtime, uid и gid, а также режим 0644 для
поля режима файла во всех заголовках членов архива.
Это гарантирует, что контрольные суммы результирующих архивов будут воспроизводимы,
если содержимое членов идентично.
.It Fl t
Этот параметр принимается, но игнорируется.
.It Fl V
Вывести идентификатор версии и завершить работу.
.El
.Ш ПРИМЕРЫ
Чтобы обновить таблицу символов архива для архива
.Pa lib.a ,
используйте:
.Ш ДИАГНОСТИКА
.Ex -std
.Ш СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ar 1 ,
.Xr ld 1 ,
.Xr archive 3 ,
.Xr elf 3 ,
.Xr ar 5
.Ш ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
впервые появилась в AT&T UNIX Version 7.
.Pp
В
.Fx 8.0 ,
.An Кай Ван Aq Mt kaiw@FreeBSD.org
переработал
.Nm
с использованием
.Lb libarchive
и
.Lb libelf .
