.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)pwd.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/28/95
.\" From: src/bin/pwd/pwd.1,v 1.11 2000/11/20 11:39:39 ru Exp
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./bin/realpath/realpath.1
.\" FRDP githash 90aea514c6249118e880d75972d063362f4bf492
.\" FRDP hash256 bb502a2dc91d3253650d694c5b102302e9c285de4f5eff1a393f48128ab05f67
.Dd 21 июня 2011
.Dt REALPATH 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm realpath
.Nd возвращает разрешённый физический путь
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl q
.Op Ar путь ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
использует функцию
.Xr realpath 3
для разрешения всех символических ссылок, лишних
.Ql /
символов и ссылок на
.Pa /./
и
.Pa /../
в
.Ar пути .
Если
.Ar путь
отсутствует, предполагается текущий рабочий каталог
.Pq Sq Pa .\&
.Pp
Если указан
.Fl q ,
предупреждения не будут выводиться при неудаче
.Xr realpath 3 .
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Показать физический путь каталога
.Pa /dev/log ,
подавляя предупреждения, если они есть:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ realpath -q /dev/log
/var/run/log
.Ed
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr realpath 3
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Fx 4.3 .
