.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/rup/rup.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 14044f9a44bc1aa2837789718b04fba6a734bd9b6078b793d0088a2852f0ac0b
.Dd 7 июня 1993
.Dt RUP 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm rup
.Nd отображение состояния удалённой системы
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Ar хост ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
отображает сводку текущего состояния системы для указанного
.Ar хоста
или всех хостов в локальной сети.
В выводе показывается текущее время, продолжительность работы системы
без перезагрузки,
и усреднённая загрузка.
Числа усреднённой загрузки показывают количество заданий в очереди выполнения,
усреднённое за 1, 5 и 15 минут.
.Pp
Для работы этой команды на удалённом хосте должен быть запущен
демон
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8 .
Утилита
.Nm
использует протокол RPC, определённый в
.In rpcsvc/rstat.x .
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
.Bd -literal
example% rup otherhost
otherhost   7:36am  up 6 дней, 16:45,  усреднённая загрузка: 0.20, 0.23, 0.18
example%
.Ed
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
.Bl -diag
.It rup: RPC: Программа не зарегистрирована
Демон
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8
не запущен на удалённом хосте.
.It rup: RPC: Таймаут
Произошла ошибка связи.
Либо сеть перегружена,
либо демон
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8
завершил работу на удалённом хосте.
.It rup: RPC: Ошибка портового отображателя - RPC: Таймаут
Удалённый хост не запустил портовый отображатель (см.
.Xr rpcbind 8 ) ,
и не может обслуживать сервисы на основе RPC.
Хост может быть выключен.
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr rpc.rstatd 8 ,
.Xr rpcbind 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Tn Sun-OS .
.Sh ИЗВЕСТНЫЕ ОШИБКИ
Опции сортировки не реализованы.
