.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ruptime.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/5/94
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/ruptime/ruptime.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 f99509df3ba1a84d6646e13815c48395b82580e75305f2e0539ffc162a55ef0b
.Dd 8 августа 2017
.Dt RUPTIME 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm ruptime
.Nd отображает состояние локальных машин
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl alrtu
.Op Ar хост ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит строку состояния, аналогичную
.Xr uptime 1 ,
для каждой машины в локальной сети; эти данные формируются из пакетов,
транслируемых каждым хостом в сети каждые три минуты.
.Pp
Если операнды не указаны,
.Nm
отображает состояние времени работы для всех машин;
в противном случае отображаются только те хосты, которые указаны в командной строке.
Если хосты указаны в командной строке, порядок сортировки соответствует
порядку, в котором хосты были указаны в командной строке.
.Pp
Машины, от которых не было получено отчётов о состоянии в течение 11 минут,
отображаются как недоступные, а машины, от которых не было отчётов
в течение 4 дней, вообще не показываются в списке.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Включать всех пользователей.
По умолчанию, если пользователь не вводил команды в систему
в течение часа или более, он будет исключён из вывода.
.It Fl l
Сортировать по средней загрузке.
.It Fl r
Обратный порядок сортировки.
.It Fl t
Сортировать по времени работы.
.It Fl u
Сортировать по количеству пользователей.
.El
.Pp
По умолчанию список сортируется по имени хоста.
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.Bl -tag -width /var/rwho/whod.* -compact
.It Pa /var/rwho/whod.*
файлы данных
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr rwho 1 ,
.Xr uptime 1 ,
.Xr rwhod 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.2 .
