.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)rwall.1	6.7 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/rwall/rwall.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 db53acac5e241234c74c0c210d426d2b5b0e2f8132700509fc527e101acfaf77
.Dd 23 апреля 1991
.Dt RWALL 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm rwall
.Nd отправить сообщение пользователям, вошедшим на узел
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Ar узел
.Op Ar файл
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
отправляет сообщение пользователям, вошедшим на указанный
.Ar узел .
Отправляемое сообщение можно ввести и завершить символом EOF, или оно может
находиться в
.Ar файле .
.Sh ДИАГНОСТИКА
.Bl -diag
.It rwall: RPC: Программа не зарегистрирована
Демон
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8
не запущен на удаленном узле.
.It rwall: RPC: Истекло время ожидания
Произошла ошибка связи.
Либо сеть перегружена,
либо демон
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8
завершил работу на удаленном узле.
.It rwall: RPC: Сбой порт-маппера - RPC: Истекло время ожидания
На удаленном узле не запущен порт-маппер (см.
.Xr rpcbind 8 ) ,
и он не может обслуживать службы на основе RPC.
Узел может быть недоступен.
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr who 1 ,
.Xr rpc.rwalld 8 ,
.Xr rpcbind 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Em Sun-OS .
.Sh ИЗВЕСТНЫЕ ОШИБКИ
Опции сортировки не реализованы.
