.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)rwho.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/rwho/rwho.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 b95a29ec642b030a53b35d5bfaba65ce552d98e1380790bda346b8e2c4582d57
.Dd 8 августа 2017
.Dt RWHO 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm rwho
.Nd показывает, кто в системе на локальных машинах
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Команда
.Nm
выводит информацию, аналогичную
.Xr who 1 ,
но для всех машин в локальной сети.
Если от машины не поступало отчётов в течение 11 минут, то
.Nm
считает, что машина не работает, и не показывает пользователей,
которые, как известно, были в системе на этой машине.
.Pp
Если пользователь не вводил команды в систему минуту или более, то
.Nm
указывает это время простоя.
.Pp
Доступна следующая опция:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
Включить всех пользователей.
По умолчанию, если пользователь не вводил команды в систему
час или более, то он не будет показан в выводе.
.El
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.Bl -tag -width /var/rwho/whod.* -compact
.It Pa /var/rwho/whod.*
информация о других машинах
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ruptime 1 ,
.Xr who 1 ,
.Xr rwhod 8
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.3 .
.Sh ИЗВЕСТНЫЕ ОШИБКИ
Неудобна в использовании, когда количество машин
в локальной сети велико.
