.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Cisco systems
.\"	Author Julian Elischer.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.sbin/setfib/setfib.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 84080e377a8de39b74622364c1cf552bbd405f634b03f6dd90ccd94f71d329b5
.Dd 20 октября 2008
.Dt SETFIB 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm setfib
.Nd запуск утилиты с измененным сетевым представлением по умолчанию
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl F
.Ar fib
.Ar утилита
.Op Ar аргумент ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
запускает другую
.Ar утилиту
с другой таблицей маршрутизации.
Номер таблицы
.Ar fib
будет использоваться по умолчанию для всех сокетов, запущенных этим
процессом или его потомками.
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменная окружения
.Ev PATH
используется для поиска запрашиваемой
.Ar утилиты,
если имя не содержит символов
.Ql / .
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
Если
.Ar утилита
вызвана, статус выхода
.Nm
равен статусу выхода
.Ar утилиты .
.Pp
Статус выхода 126 указывает, что
.Ar утилита
была найдена, но не может быть выполнена.
Статус выхода 127 указывает, что
.Ar утилита
не может быть найдена.
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Запустите
.Xr netstat 1
для просмотра второй таблицы маршрутизации.
.Pp
или
или
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr setfib 2 ,
.Xr setsockopt 2
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
является специфичным расширением
.Fx .
Однако многие
.Ux Ns - Ns
подобные системы
имеют эквивалентную функцию.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Утилита
.Nm
появилась в
.Fx 7.1 .
