.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Baptiste Daroussin <bapt@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/soelim/soelim.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 71a600bf60ac3adb2da4200d2b7250b17c4d2605eb4f6f4eec548aeddaa6c185
.Dd 7 ноября 2015
.Dt SOELIM 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm soelim
.Nd интерпретировать запросы .so в страницах руководства
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl Crtv
.Op Fl I Ar каталог
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
читает указанные файлы или стандартный ввод и выполняет текстовое включение, подразумеваемое директивами
.Xr nroff 1
вида:
.Pp
.Dl \&.so другойфайл
.Pp
Если строка начинается с:
.Dq .so другойфайл
она заменяется обработкой
.Dq другойфайл .
В противном случае строка выводится на стандартный вывод.
.It Fl C
Распознавать
.Em .so
даже если за ним не следует пробел.
.It Fl r
Совместимость с
.Xr soelim 1
из groff (ничего не делает).
.It Fl t
Совместимость с
.Xr soelim 1
из groff (ничего не делает).
.It Fl v
Совместимость с
.Xr soelim 1
из groff (ничего не делает).
.It Fl I Ar каталог
Этот параметр указывает каталоги, в которых
.Nm
ищет файлы (как указанные в командной строке, так и названные в директиве
.Dq .so ).
Этот параметр может быть указан несколько раз.
Каталоги будут просматриваться в указанном порядке.
.El
.Pp
Файлы всегда сначала ищутся в текущем каталоге.
.Pp
Файл, указанный с абсолютным путём, будет открыт напрямую без поиска.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr mandoc 1
.Sh АВТОРЫ
Эта версия утилиты
.Nm
была написана
.An Baptiste Daroussin Aq Mt bapt@freebsd.org .
