.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ul.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/ul/ul.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 a1e0dadee6134ca33a96aa2a4cf2404cee9c3870dd4648910154f486f8fcb64d
.Dd 7 октября 2020
.Dt UL 1
.Os
.ИМЯ
.Nm ul
.Nd подчеркивание текста
.СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl t Ar терминал
.Op Ar
.ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
читает указанные файлы (или стандартный ввод, если файлы не заданы)
и преобразует символы подчеркивания в последовательности,
указывающие на подчеркивание для используемого терминала,
как определено переменной окружения
.Ev TERM .
Файл
.Pa /etc/termcap
читается для определения соответствующих последовательностей подчеркивания.
Если терминал не поддерживает подчеркивание, но имеет режим выделения,
то используется он.
Если терминал может выполнять наложение символов
или обрабатывает подчеркивание автоматически,
.Nm
вырождается в
.Xr cat 1 .
Если терминал не может подчеркивать, подчеркивание игнорируется.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl i
Подчеркивание обозначается отдельной строкой, содержащей соответствующие
дефисы
.Ql \- .
.It Fl t Ar терминал
Переопределяет тип терминала, указанный в окружении, на
.Ar терминал .
.El
.ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
Переменные окружения
.Ev LANG , LC_ALL , LC_CTYPE
и
.Ev TERM
влияют на выполнение
.Nm
как описано в
.Xr environ 7 .
.СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
.Ex -std
.СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr man 1 ,
.Xr mandoc 1
.ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 3.0 .
