.\"	$NetBSD: unvis.1,v 1.10 2012/12/15 02:08:13 uwe Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)unvis.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./contrib/unvis/unvis.1
.\" FRDP githash f1f890804985a1043da42a5def13c79dc005f5e9
.\" FRDP hash256 cfeb306f13f72a87043d713ca413168e972a4c8c4a670b47e1d5081f77b8bef6
.Dd 27 ноября 2010
.Dt UNVIS 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm unvis
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl e
.Op Fl Hh | Fl m
.Op Ar файл ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm
является обратной функцией для
.Xr vis 1 .
Она восстанавливает
визуальное представление данных до их исходной формы на стандартном выводе.
.Pp
Параметры следующие:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl e
Не декодировать экранированные последовательности \e.
.It Fl H
Декодировать ссылки на сущности и числовые ссылки на символы из RFC 1866.
.Pq Dv VIS_HTTP1866
.It Fl h
Декодировать с использованием кодирования URI из RFC 1808.
.Pq Dv VIS_HTTP1808
.It Fl m
Декодировать в стиле MIME.
.Pq Dv VIS_MIMESTYLE
.El
.Pp
Совместное использование
.Fl h
или
.Fl H
с
.Fl m
не поддерживается.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr vis 1 ,
.Xr unvis 3 ,
.Xr vis 3
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.4 .
