.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)what.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/what/what.1
.\" FRDP githash bdcbfde31e8e9b343f113a1956384bdf30d1ed62
.\" FRDP hash256 6e37ec26fef29cf939e4e702b2eaad2ee0e0624333b9765adbc5ef615bc102db
.Dd 14 декабря 2006
.Dt WHAT 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm what
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl qs
.Op Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
ищет в каждом указанном
.Ar файле
последовательности вида
.Dq Li @(#) ,
вставляемые системой управления исходным кодом
.Tn SCCS .
Она выводит оставшуюся часть строки после этого маркера до нулевого символа, перевода строки, двойной кавычки,
.Ql \&>
или обратной косой черты.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl q
Выводить только совпадающий текст без форматирования.
.It Fl s
Прекращать поиск в каждом файле после первого совпадения.
.El
.Sh СТАТУС ВЫХОДА
Статус выхода равен 0, если были найдены совпадения, иначе 1.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr ident 1 ,
.Xr strings 1
.Sh СТАНДАРТЫ
Утилита
.Nm
соответствует
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
Опция
.Fl q
является нестандартным расширением
.Fx ,
которое может быть недоступно в других операционных системах.
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
появилась в
.Bx 4.0 .
.Sh ИЗВЕСТНЫЕ ОШИБКИ
Это переписанная версия команды
.Tn SCCS
с тем же именем,
и её поведение может не быть полностью идентичным.
