.\" Manpage Copyright (c) 1995, Jordan Hubbard <jkh@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by the FreeBSD Project
.\"      its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the FreeBSD Project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE CONTRIBUTOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/which/which.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 f0482c8fbea72121f12d44968198bb7c6d1162ae05bd843af9379a1f8cc665e7
.Dd 24 сентября 2020
.Dt WHICH 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm which
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl as
.Ar программа ...
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
принимает список имён команд и ищет в пути для каждого исполняемого
файла, который был бы запущен, если бы эти команды действительно были вызваны.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl a
Вывести все найденные экземпляры исполняемых файлов (вместо только первого
для каждой команды).
.It Fl s
Без вывода, просто возвращает 0, если все исполняемые файлы найдены, или 1, если
некоторые не найдены.
.El
.Pp
Некоторые оболочки могут предоставлять встроенную команду
.Nm
, которая похожа или идентична этой утилите.
Обратитесь к странице руководства
.Xr builtin 1 .
.Sh ПРИМЕРЫ
Найти команды
.Xr ls 1
и
.Xr cp 1
:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ /usr/bin/which ls cp
/bin/ls
/bin/cp
.Ed
.Pp
То же, что и выше, с указанным
.Ev PATH
и показом всех вхождений:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ PATH=/bin:/rescue /usr/bin/which -a ls cp
/bin/ls
/rescue/ls
/bin/cp
/rescue/cp
.Ed
.Pp
.Nm which
покажет дубликаты, если один и тот же исполняемый файл найден более одного раза:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ PATH=/bin:/bin /usr/bin/which -a ls
/bin/ls
/bin/ls
.Ed
.Pp
Не выводить результат.
Просто завершить работу с соответствующим кодом возврата:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ /usr/bin/which -s ls cp
$ echo $?
0

$ /usr/bin/which -s fakecommand
$ echo $?
1
.Ed
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr locate 1 ,
.Xr whereis 1
.Sh ИСТОРИЯ
Команда
.Nm
впервые появилась в
.Fx 2.1 .
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An -nosplit
Утилита
.Nm
изначально была написана на Perl и была предоставлена
.An Вольфрамом Шнайдером Aq Mt wosch@FreeBSD.org .
Текущая версия
.Nm
была переписана на C
.An Даниэлем Папасяном Aq Mt dpapasia@andrew.cmu.edu .
