.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Winning Strategies, Inc.
.\" 4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/ypmatch/ypmatch.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 4d9f95fba317c7e503c0c55254752172f77fcd8a56da84fa7afbcaea865312c4
.Dd 3 сентября 2015
.Dt YPMATCH 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm ypmatch
.Nd вывод значений одного или нескольких ключей в базе данных NIS
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl kt
.Op Fl d Ar имя_домена
.Ar ключ ...
.Ar имя_карты
.Nm
.Fl x
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
выводит значения одного или нескольких ключей из
.Tn NIS
базы данных, указанной в
.Ar имя_карты ,
которое может быть именем карты или псевдонимом карты.
.Pp
Доступны следующие опции:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar имя_домена
Указать домен, отличный от домена по умолчанию.
.It Fl k
Отобразить ключи карты.
Эта опция полезна для карт, в которых значения пусты или ключ
не является частью значения.
.It Fl t
Запретить преобразование псевдонимов карт
в соответствующие имена карт.
.It Fl x
Отобразить таблицу псевдонимов карт.
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr domainname 1 ,
.Xr ypcat 1 ,
.Xr yp 8 ,
.Xr ypbind 8 ,
.Xr ypset 8
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Theo De Raadt Aq Mt deraadt@theos.com .
