.\"	$NetBSD: ypwhich.1,v 1.3 1996/05/13 02:43:46 thorpej Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Christopher G. Demetriou
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by Christopher G. Demetriou.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/ypwhich/ypwhich.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 85a4b74abea18c45cb883ce2c5bc98281430a2fb348ffeca81434594dd71dbba
.Dd 3 сентября 2015
.Dt YPWHICH 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm ypwhich
.Nd возвращает имя хоста NIS-сервера или мастера карты
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm
.Op Fl d Ar домен
.Oo
.Op Fl t
.Fl m Oo Ar имя_карты Oc | Ar хост
.Oc
.Nm
.Fl x
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
показывает, какой
.Tn NIS
сервер предоставляет
.Tn NIS
услуги клиенту, или какой сервер является мастером для карты.
Если вызвана без аргументов, возвращает
.Tn NIS
сервер для локальной машины.
Если указан
.Ar хост,
то запрашивается эта машина, чтобы узнать,
какой
.Tn NIS
сервер она использует.
.Pp
Параметры следующие:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl d Ar домен
Указать домен, отличный от домена по умолчанию.
.It Fl t
Запретить преобразование псевдонимов карт
в соответствующие имена карт.
.It Fl m Op Ar имя_карты
Найти мастер-
.Tn NIS
сервер для указанной карты.
Параметр
.Ar хост
не может быть указан с опцией
.Fl m.
Аргумент
.Ar имя_карты
может быть именем карты или псевдонимом.
Если
.Ar имя_карты
опущено,
.Nm
выведет список доступных карт.
.It Fl x
Отобразить таблицу псевдонимов карт.
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr domainname 1 ,
.Xr ypcat 1 ,
.Xr ypmatch 1 ,
.Xr yp 8 ,
.Xr ypbind 8 ,
.Xr yppoll 8 ,
.Xr ypset 8
.Sh АВТОРЫ
.An Theo De Raadt
