.\"	$NetBSD: zdiff.1,v 1.5 2010/04/14 19:52:05 wiz Exp $
.\"	$OpenBSD: zdiff.1,v 1.2 2003/07/13 17:39:14 millert Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Todd C. Miller <Todd.Miller@courtesan.com>
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Joerg Sonnenberger <joerg@NetBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Sponsored in part by the Defense Advanced Research Projects
.\" Agency (DARPA) and Air Force Research Laboratory, Air Force
.\" Materiel Command, USAF, under agreement number F39502-99-1-0512.
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/gzip/zdiff.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 7a96e852c0aed553330191fd92c333237064856889beb1f520252052e34360b0
.Dd 23 мая 2011
.Dt ZDIFF 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm zcmp ,
.Nm zdiff
.Nd сравнение сжатых файлов
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm zcmp
.Op Аргументы
.Ar файл1
.Op Аргументы файл2
.Nm zdiff
.Op Аргументы
.Ar файл1
.Op Аргументы файл2
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
.Nm zcmp
и
.Nm zdiff
являются фильтрами, которые вызывают
.Xr cmp 1
или
.Xr diff 1
соответственно для сравнения сжатых файлов.
Любые указанные
.Ar аргументы
передаются
.Xr cmp 1
или
.Xr diff 1 .
.Pp
Если указан только
.Ar файл1 ,
он сравнивается с файлом, имеющим то же имя, но с удалённым расширением.
Когда указаны оба
.Ar файл1
и
.Ar файл2 ,
любой из файлов может быть сжатым.
.Pp
Расширения, обрабатываемые
.Xr gzip 1 :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
z, Z,
.It
gz,
.It
taz,
.It
tgz.
.El
.Pp
Расширения, обрабатываемые
.Xr bzip2 1 :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
bz,
.It
bz2,
.It
tbz,
.It
tbz2.
.El
.Pp
Расширения, обрабатываемые
.Xr xz 1 :
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
lzma,
.It
xz,
.It
tlz,
.It
txz.
.El
.Sh ОКРУЖЕНИЕ
.It Ev TMPDIR
Каталог для размещения временных файлов.
Если не установлен, используется
.Pa /tmp .
.El
.Sh ФАЙЛЫ
.It Pa /tmp/zcmp.XXXXXXXXXX
Временный файл для
.Nm zcmp .
.It Pa /tmp/zdiff.XXXXXXXXXX
Временный файл для
.Nm zdiff .
.El
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr bzip2 1 ,
.Xr cmp 1 ,
.Xr diff 1 ,
.Xr gzip 1 ,
.Xr xz 1
.Sh ПРЕДОСТЕРЕЖЕНИЯ
.Nm zcmp
и
.Nm zdiff
полагаются исключительно на расширение файла для определения того, является ли файл сжатым.
Следовательно, следующие аргументы не поддерживаются:
.Bl -dash
.It
каталоги
.It
специальные файлы устройств
.It
имена файлов, указывающие на стандартный ввод
.Pq Dq \-
.El
