.\"	$NetBSD: zforce.1,v 1.2 2003/12/28 12:43:43 wiz Exp $
.\"	$OpenBSD: zforce.1,v 1.1 2003/07/29 11:50:09 otto Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Otto Moerbeek <otto@drijf.net>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" FRDP path ./usr.bin/gzip/zforce.1
.\" FRDP githash fa9896e082a1046ff4fbc75fcba4d18d1f2efc19
.\" FRDP hash256 51a31e4721592d0c6f255eeaf3b5819ffe38f87351be31ad2c94cbec221d5d72
.Dd 26 января 2007
.Dt ZFORCE 1
.Os
.Sh ИМЯ
.Nm zforce
.Nd принудительное добавление суффикса .gz к файлам gzip
.Sh СИНТАКСИС
.Nm zforce
.Ar
.Sh ОПИСАНИЕ
Утилита
.Nm
переименовывает файлы
.Xr gzip 1
для добавления суффикса
.Sq .gz ,
чтобы
.Xr gzip 1
не сжимал их повторно.
Это может быть полезно, если имена файлов были усечены при передаче.
Файлы, уже имеющие суффиксы
.Sq .gz ,
.Sq -gz ,
.Sq _gz ,
.Sq .tgz
или
.Sq .taz ,
а также файлы, не сжатые с помощью
.Xr gzip 1 ,
игнорируются.
.Sh СМ. ТАКЖЕ
.Xr gzip 1
.Sh ПРЕДОСТЕРЕЖЕНИЯ
.Nm
перезаписывает существующие файлы без предупреждения.
